And so since his daddy had the car a lot and he had the
car, we decided to room together and that was okay
with Wally and he found another room. Describe
what that room, how was it furnished? What
luxuries did y'all have in that room? We had a
double-decker army cot-type bed with cotton
mattresses about six inches thick. We had two oak
desks. Two oak chairs, a wash basin, a towel rack, a
closet. The room itself was,
I'd say, 10 by 12. Now, by what method did you all
decide who slept on the top and who on the bottom?
I don't remember that. I slept on the bottom, but I
don't remember how we decided that's the way it was
going to work. It could have been that Walter knew
that if he ever got drowned out, the guy on the
bottom bunk had better get up and turn his mattress
over very quickly, or he was going to be sleeping on
a soggy mattress. Now, I would not accuse Walter of
that. But he volunteered to take the top bunk. And I
will go no further than that.
And how long was it before you ran into any of the
traditions of the questions and the whipping out
and all that? Right away. You all had been oriented
on that out at the air base? Out at the air base. OK.
We went through practice drills on that. And when
we got back to Hart Hall and some of the
upperclassmen came in early, they would try to see
how effectively we had been taught, I'll put it
that way. So that all the Aggie sports were
represented in Hart Hall. Every sport. Who were,
for you as a fish, who were some of the celebrity
famous Aggie athletes here in the fall of 48? You
mean in my class or just in Hart Hall? No, in Hart
Hall. Well. The juniors, seniors. There was Bob
Smith, Rapid Robert, All-American fullback. He
wasn't All-American at that time, but I knew Bob
from playing football and running track against
him when he was at Lamar High School in Houston. Now
he was a year or two ahead of you? He was one year
ahead of me. One.
We were kind of spare on standout athletes at that
time. Yeah, that was kind of a down time, wasn't it?
It was, because in the fall of 48 in football, for
example, we went 0-9-1. And Homer Norton was the?
Homer Norton had been let go the year before. Harry
Steitler was the football coach. Typist, that's
S-T-I-T-E-L-E-R. Correct. And did Colonel Andy
come over to your room much in those early days?
Colonel Andy would pass through about every other
day just to see if Everybody was getting settled in
and you know how things were going. Colonel Andy
let you do your own thing. He was available for
guidance if you wanted it. He was a father figure to
every one of us.
Now you were in an outfit. What outfit was it? Core
outfit was it? It was the 7th Regiment which was a
composite regiment which consisted of the day
students from Bryan and College Station, as well
as the athletes. Now you said regiment, not
company. Regiment. Regiment. Seventh regiment.
Composite regiment. Now we, in Hart Hall, we had
two companies. We had A Athletics, which, and they
divided it. That consisted of football players
and basketball players. And B Company Athletics
was everybody else. Did y'all have a nickname,
your company? No, no, just the athletes, that's
what they called us. All right, describe what it
was like to, let's see, how did you register
academically?
Did y'all stand up? We registered out at Bryan
Field. Okay, you went through the lines and all? As
part of the... freshman orientation process.
Right. Describe going to your first classes. What
was your impression the first few days?
It was, we knew by that time where our buildings
were. The upperclassmen had seen to that. And they
were helping us out as well, so that we wouldn't
wander around in on a gall, all that kind of
business. And our classes were nearby. The
farthest classes we had were down by the old water
tower.
In fact, The new water tower is there to this day,
just a different type of water tower. And down
behind that water tower there were a lot of old
World War II barracks that they had pulled out of
Bryan Field and had brought out there to the
college and rehab and cut up into classrooms. And a
number of our classrooms were down there. But we
had history in the academic building. We had math
and economics in Pfeiffer Hall along with the
bats. The place was full of bats. Pfeiffer Hall had
fireplaces and chimneys in it. Fireplaces were
boarded up, but if you'd be on the blackboards you
could hear the bats in there.
That's where we had our classes. Do you remember
what your academic load was in number of hours that
first semester? Yes, sir. We carried 19 hours. And
you were at that point an engineering major? No, I
was business. I changed my mind to business before
I got here when I saw that I was going to have a pretty
busy schedule with athletics and trying to put the
time that I felt I should into academics. I was very
academically oriented. Describe going to
classes the first days and your impression and
what the faculty attempted to do and say.
We had an economics prof, I don't remember his
name, but the first thing he said was, and he wrote
it on the board, He said, if you can teach a pig to say
supply and demand, you have an economist. And
would you believe that showed up as a question on
the first major quiz? And we had Screamin' Al
Nelson for history. Make believe I didn't know
him. Describe. Screamin' Al Nelson was about as
hard shell a Republican as you could come across.
An extremely brilliant man. I don't believe there
was a book in Cushing Library that he hadn't read.
You could never put anything over on him except for
one thing. If you wanted to get out of a boring
lecture, all you had to do was raise your hand and
say, Dr. Nelson, My dad said that Roosevelt pulled
us out of the Depression, and he would take off like
a skyrocket. Now, he would yell about that more
than anything else, wouldn't he? Oh, absolutely.
He would get up on his desk. He would kick the books
and the inkwell and everything else off his desk.
He would start marching back and forth on that
desktop, stomping and shouting, and the Other
people, other professors who had classes would
very nicely come and shut his door so they wouldn't
have to listen to him echo up and down the halls of
the academic building. That was the funniest
thing I ever ran into in my life from a prof. But in
fact, he was an effective teacher. Oh, he was. I
mean, you learn history. You learned it. pretty
much on your own. What he taught you was ancillary
stuff. You got your test questions out of the
textbook. And he didn't put up with any goofing
off, did he? No nonsense. Absolutely no nonsense.
What about some other from that first semester, if
you can remember? We had Dr. Doak for biology. Dr.
Doak was a brilliant a scientist, a Casper Milk
Toast type of man. But there wasn't anything about
biology that he didn't know. And he taught us a lot.
He was very quietly effective in his own way. And a
full three hours of lab every week, I bet. A full
three hours of lab. No frog dissections. We had
that in high school. And while I'm on that subject,
You had asked me earlier how I felt my high school
had prepared me. It was very obvious compared to
what some of the other students absorbed or what
they knew.
We were all required to take Algebra I. Most of them
had had, not most, but half or so, had had two years
of mathematics. addition, subtraction,
multiplication. Very few of them had geometry.
I had had two years of algebra, a year of plain
geometry, a semester of solid geometry, a year of
trig, and chemistry and physics. I took the whole
nine yards. And I felt real sorry for some of these
young fellows that came out of smaller schools
that didn't have the opportunity to learn all
those things that I did. What were, for you and your
new friends that had the same kind of attitude you
have, what were your basic guidelines about going
to class, class behavior, and so forth? The
guidelines were you're expected to go to class.
That was all that was said about it. And behavior,
you're a young gentleman, you behave yourself in
class, and we did. I mean, we were athletes, and
athletes are probably a little more rambunctious
than the average student, but we were also kind of
no-nonsense guys. I knew what we were there for.
And I just thought of this. You were also a
comparatively rare commodity to be freshman on
that campus, weren't you? On the main campus. An
oddity is not done again to describe it. We were
unique. So there weren't many freshman sections
of anything. We were the freshman section of
everything. Now, the The curriculum and classes
that I'm describing to you are the classes that the
business freshmen went to. Now, some of the
engineering freshmen, they would go to our
English and math and history classes, and then
they'd go to their specialized classes. As
you get worked into this academic routine, Where
did you and your buddies go when you had a break,
when you had some unscheduled time? The Y. What did
you do over there? Shoot pool, drink coffee. Were
you a coffee drinker when you got to A&M? Oh,
hardly. But it didn't take long. I became a veteran
coffee drinker. Had you been a pool shooter before
you got here? No. My roommate, Walter Evans,
taught me that. He taught me pool. He taught me
snooker. And there was a snooker parlor up above
Doc Lipson's drugstore at Northgate. Really? At
the corner of Northgate and College Main,
catty-cornered across from the post office. And
we would go up there and play the game, the
occasional game of snooker. And then... If you
wanted to just kind of go somewhere and rest,
relax, where would you go? Go to the library. You
could go back in the stacks and get lost. I would
have been surprised if that hadn't been your
answer.
And did you ever go back in there and go to sleep,
literally? Take a nap? I didn't. I was too curious
as to what they had back there. And I wanted to find
out about it. And of course, some of the stacks were
restricted. depending upon your classification
and what you were studying. Now, and the library
was almost a sacred place in terms of no hazing or
anything like that. Is that right? Absolutely.
There was no, none of that sort of thing went on in
the library. It just wasn't done. Make believe
that I had not been in Cushing at that era. Describe
it. As I recall, you went up to the steps into a large
room and around the periphery of the room were
bookcases of various and sundry different types
of books and then back behind the main desk were
what we call
of research and then of course there were, I don't
recall whether there were two or three levels of
stacks up behind the main desk, but that's where
you did the specialty research and you'd go to the
card index and look up what you wanted to research
and turn the card in. Somebody would go get the
books for you. Okay, then you went to chow. What
was... I digress. I remember the ornate light
fixtures in the ceiling in the library.
Back to the, what was the routine like when you and
your buddies went to the chow hall? Describe a
typical meal and how it was done. We didn't have
revelry like they did over in the Corps. the Corps
would form in a quadrangle and they would march to
Belkin Hall for their breakfast meal. Depending
upon when our class was, our first class, we would
more or less straddle down to Sedesa. When we first
got there, the upper class had the idea, well, we
will march all the freshmen down there. Well that
lasted for about a week because the upperclassmen
didn't want to get up and march down there with us
anymore than we wanted to march ourselves. So that
kind of died on the vine and we found our own way down
there if we felt like going to breakfast. And I was
always a big breakfast eater and I always went down
there and took my books with me and went from there
to my first class. But y'all didn't have all that
routine as to who serves it or anything? Well, the
people who served it were waiters who did not
have... But I mean, you didn't have, as a fish, you
didn't have to take care of an upperclassman's
plate or anything like that. We had to make sure
that the upperclassmen were fed first before we
ate. Oh, okay. Okay. And of course, the meals were
served family style and big bowls and big platters
and that kind of thing. But no, as far as having to
actually serve the upperclassmen, no. What was
your impression of Aggie food, dining hall food?
It was, like they said in the cadence,
a freshman privilege is to eat all you can. And I was
a chow hound. And I thought the chow was great. Now,
the pork chops would get a little greasy. And the
bull neck was not always the best. It was, shall we
say, chewy. But I thought it was good. And I didn't
notice anybody ever turning their nose up at
anything that was served. All right, so y'all
didn't, Did you athletes march either to lunch or
supper? We did not march to a meal after the first
week.
But y'all did have a table where you were supposed
to sit each of the three meals. We did. We sat by
outfits. And unless your sport was in season,
season, then we had what was called a training
table, where you didn't get all that greasy bull
neck, you got a better quality mainly meat. Who
were the key seniors at your table? Jack Quirey,
who was the company B commander. Spell his name.
Q-U-I-R-E-Y.
He is a retired school administrator, At East
Bernard, Texas. He came from around East Bernard.
Ed,
chairman of the board, Bluebell Creamery. Cruz?
Ed Cruzy. From Brenham? From Brenham. His
brother, Howard Cruzy. was a freshman classmate.
They were both swimmers. And Herschel Maltz,
M-A-L-T-Z, was a baseball player from Houston.
Houston McCarty, a track man. He was class of 51.
The upperclassmen kind of rotated in and out, but
pretty generally stayed with their freshmen in
their ramp or in their sport. Did you fish athletes
attempt any dining hall pranks, jokes, good bull?
No, we didn't attempt any, but we were the focus of a
lot of them because
We would have to, for example, during football
season,
if you wanted your kush, which was dessert, if you
wanted your kush, you had to stand up in your seat
and give kush call. And have you ever heard the kush
call for Rice Institute? What comes out? No. Oh.
Well, that was another one. That was the brief
version. The long version was, in a high falsetto
voice, you would say, the loudest possible voice,
Rudy toot toot, Rudy toot toot, we're the boys from
the Institute. We don't smoke and we don't chew and
we don't go with girls that do. Our class won the
Bible. And if the upperclassmen were satisfied
that you gave a satisfactory push call, Fish,
lemmings, saddle, eat your kush. If they didn't
like it, you'd give it again. Now, did you acquire a
nickname? No, I did not acquire a nickname.
Because most people did, didn't they? Quite a few
did, but I was just plain old Paul. What about back
in the dorm that freshman year? Were there some
Good Bull jokes, pranks? Oh, we had Good Bull
sessions. Yeah, we had a lot of them. One of the more
memorable ones, the
upperclassmen had told us that what you freshmen
need to do is go out and scout the country and find a
good outdoor crapper so that you can put it up on top
of the bonfire and you put your names and all that on
it and you'll be recognized.
They didn't tell us what we would be recognized
for. So a group of us, Billy Bless, me, Don Graves,
Marshall Sorrell, Jody Zurn,
may have been one other. I can't recall right now.
But we started scouting around out in the
countryside, principally down Wilbur Road
because Septic tanks were unheard of in those
days. Everybody had an outdoor jar. And we found
what
we thought would be the ideal crapper and we
scouted it out and we decided how we were going to
make our approach. There was a road that went
behind the house about a hundred yards away from
the house. There was a barbed wire fence along the
road. we were going to lay the fence down, sneak in
at night. We had a couple of tuba sixes, two
three-pound mauls, a double handful of 20 penny
nails, and we were going to sneak up to that
outhouse and whack, whack, whack, wrap those tuba
sixes up on that outhouse, put it up on our
shoulders, and sail out of there back to Marshall
Sorrell's Model A Ford, on which he had built a
platform extension in the back. We were going to
set that thing up there. And I had a Boy Scout bugle.
And we were going to go all over the campus blowing
this bugle, letting everybody know that we had
stolen the perfect outhouse. Well, what they
didn't tell us was that it was the band's privilege
to put the outhouse on the bonfire. And we had been
set up by the upperclassmen in Hart Hall. And they
told us, yeah, paint your names on there with shoe
polish. Well,
we got the recognition. And it was from the big bull
himself, Hayden L. Boatner.
Who would later be famous in Korea. At Chejudo.
No, Koji Island. The prisoner of war. We felt that
that was a perfect spot for Colonel Boatman. But
anyhow, we had our plan laid out, and in the dark of
night, we went out to execute it. We took wire
cutters, and we cut the fence, and we laid the fence
down, and we snuck up about 100 yards through this
pasture. And when we got about 20 yards from the
house, this joke yard dog comes out from
underneath the house. We had not seen a dog while we
were out there. Of course, he was always up
underneath the house sleeping. That's why we
hadn't seen him. And we got up there real quick. We
kicked him away and racked up and put those two to
sixes on there. Jody Zurn went up to the door to the
outhouse, swung open. The lights came on in the
house. And we were... just a few steps away from
being intercepted. Jody took two steps forward to
close the outhouse door. There was a concrete lip
out over the pit. Jody stepped too far onto the
concrete lip and went ka-chunk down into the pit.
Jody was a little guy anyhow. Oh, that's a price.
Yeah, and he was standing on his tiptoes just back
there keeping his chin above all the crud and I
don't remember who reached down in there to pull
him out, but the rest of us started running with
this outhouse and we figured somebody was helping
Jody and they were on their own. We got back to the
Model A and put the outhouse on there and here came
the junkyard dog and the guy who lived in the house,
and he, blam, blam, fired a couple of times, and we
got out of there. He evidently had notified
Colonel Boatner that a group of students had
stolen this, so Boatner started a campus-wide
search, and it didn't take him long. Hart Hall was
just the next door down from Ross Hall, which was
where all the Bulls had their offices, and with our
names on there, it did not take a Philo Vance
to figure out who the culprits were. And we were
called
on the carpet. And he put his finger in our belly
button and said, I want a new outhouse back on that
man's property by sundown. I don't care how you do
it. I just want it out there. Yes, sir. And by
sundown, we had a new outhouse. How did you do it? We
scrounged lumber. We got the upperclassmen to
loan us some money so we could buy lumber. We felt
they owed it to us since they'd set us up. And
somebody sketched some plans out very quickly,
you know, who had an outhouse of their own at their
place out in the country. We just did it. And took it
back and put it in place. Took it back and put it in
place. Did your buddies tease y'all or anything?
No, they just kind of snickered. And we said, we're
going to get you guys. We're going to get you. And
how did y'all get them back? I don't know that we
ever did. Well, one guy we did get back, he was a
crapperman.
And we knew that he had been one of the instigators
behind trying to get us to steal the perfect apple.
And we waited until he went in there to take a crap.
And we snuck around and walked the door on his side,
came back around to my side, We had what was
referred to in those days as a nigger chaser, which
was a pyrotechnic and you would light it and it
would go all over the place and then explode. We
figured we gave him enough time to drop his
britches and sit down and we opened the door and
threw this light chaser in there, locked the door,
And there he was, spinning around him with his
pants down below his ankles. And we could hear him
hollering and screaming. And we let him sweat it
out for about 15 minutes, and somebody went back up
there and unlocked his door. Now, the mention of
the outhouse causes me to ask, what did a fish in
your year, what did you all do about bonfire?